language/python.md, before:

# Python

📺 [데이터 과학을 위한 Python 입문 (무료버전)](https://github.com/TeamLab/introduction\_to\_python\_TEAMLAB\_MOOC) - by TEAMLAB\
&#x20; \-  _github 내 목차를 통한 youtube 영상 연결 / 유료 버전은 인프런에 있음_\
&#x20; _-  책 :_ [데이터 과학을 위한 파이썬 프로그래밍](https://www.aladin.co.kr/shop/wproduct.aspx?ItemId=177235013)

📘 [점프 투 파이썬 (온라인 버전)](https://wikidocs.net/book/1) - in WikiDocs

✏️ [Real Python](https://realpython.com) - 다양하고 유용한 Python tutorial이 있음

[Python Books You Must Read in 2020](https://towardsdatascience.com/python-books-you-must-read-in-2020-a0fc33798bb)

## 추천 자료

### 자료구조

[Common Python Data Structures (Guide)](https://realpython.com/python-data-structures/#collectionsordereddict-remember-the-insertion-order-of-keys) - in Real Python

[Use id() to Understand 6 Key Concepts in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/use-id-to-understand-6-key-concepts-in-python-73e0bbd461ec)\
&#x20; \-  _Python의 object 특징에 대한 이해_

* [Understanding ‘==’ vs. ‘is’ in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/understanding-vs-is-in-python-2f8f7ae1dd23)

[Python 3's f-Strings: An Improved String Formatting Syntax](https://realpython.com/python-f-strings/) - in Real Python

[Difference between Lists and Tuple](https://codeburst.io/difference-between-lists-and-tuple-9153fc329cd)\
&#x20; \-  **Tuples** are stored in a single block of memory.\
&#x20; \-  **Lists** are allocated in two blocks: the fixed one with all the Python object information \
&#x20;    and a variable sized block for the data.

[OrderedDict vs dict in Python: The Right Tool for the Job](https://realpython.com/python-ordereddict/) - in Real Python

[Linked Lists in Python: An Introduction](https://realpython.com/linked-lists-python/#performance-comparison-lists-vs-linked-lists) - in Real Python

[Python Type Checking (Guide)](https://realpython.com/python-type-checking) - in Real Python\
&#x20; \-  _python type hint 기능에 대한 이해_

[DataClass vs NamedTuple vs Object: A Battle of Performance in Python](https://medium.com/@jacktator/dataclass-vs-namedtuple-vs-object-for-performance-optimization-in-python-691e234253b9)\
&#x20; _-  3.7버전 이후부터는 namedtuple 보다 dataclass 활용을 추천_

[Methods in Python: Fundamentals for Data Scientists](https://towardsdatascience.com/methods-in-python-fundamentals-for-data-scientists-6a9393b2c2e7)\
&#x20; _-  class method, instance method, static method에 대한 설명_&#x20;

### 언어에 대한 이해

[Defining Main Functions in Python](https://realpython.com/python-main-function/) - in Real Python\
&#x20; \-  _if  \_name  == " main \_" 에 대한 이해_

[Pickle in Python: Object Serialization](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/pickle-python-tutorial) - by DataCamp\
&#x20; \-  _Pickle은 python만 지원하고 성능이 좋지 않음 (개념 정도만 파악)_

[What is the Python Global Interpreter Lock (GIL)?](https://realpython.com/python-gil/) - in Real Python

[3 Essential Questions About Hashable in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/3-essential-questions-about-hashable-in-python-33e981042bcb)\
&#x20; \-  Python의 hash 설명과 Class를 활용한 custom 구현&#x20;

### 활용

[Are you writing print() statements to debug your Python code?](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/are-you-writing-print-statements-to-debug-your-python-code-690e6ba098e9)\
&#x20; \-  pdb 모듈로 디버깅하는 간단한 방법&#x20;

[Stop Using Print to Debug in Python. Use Icecream Instead](https://towardsdatascience.com/stop-using-print-to-debug-in-python-use-icecream-instead-79e17b963fcc)

&#x20; \- 간단한 디버깅은 print 대신 ic 명령어

[Package Python Projects the Proper Way with Poetry](https://hackersandslackers.com/python-poetry-package-manager/)\
&#x20; _-  가상환경 Tool (dependency 관리 )_

[Managing Multiple Python Versions With pyenv](https://realpython.com/intro-to-pyenv/) - in Real Python\
&#x20; \-  _python 버전관리에 대한 이해_

[Understanding Sync, Async, Concurrency and Parallelism](https://medium.com/swlh/understanding-sync-async-concurrency-and-parallelism-166686008fa4)\
&#x20; \-  _Concurrency와 Parallelism에 대한 간단한 설명 및 threading, multiprocessing + asyncio의 용도_

[AsyncIO, Threading, and Multiprocessing in Python](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/asyncio-threading-and-multiprocessing-in-python-4f5ff6ca75e8)\
&#x20; \-  _aysncio 코드 및 보완 설명_

[How to Execute Shell Commands with Python](https://janakiev.com/blog/python-shell-commands/)

## 알면 좋은 자료

[How to Stand Out in a Python Coding Interview](https://realpython.com/python-coding-interview-tips/) - in Real Python

[Efficiently Checking for an Empty List in Python ](https://medium.com/swlh/efficiently-checking-for-an-empty-list-in-python-76b76099fbd3)

[Benchmarking the Best Way to Reverse a String in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/benchmarking-the-best-way-to-reverse-a-string-in-python-9c73d87b1b1a)

[Five Most Useful Pathlib Operations](https://medium.com/swlh/five-most-useful-pathlib-operations-77f9c96790b3)\
&#x20; \- os.path 대신 pathlib을 사용하자&#x20;

[Do Not Use “+” to Join Strings in Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/do-not-use-to-join-strings-in-python-f89908307273)\
&#x20; \-  리스트를 String으로 합칠 때는 ' '.join 활용

[A Complete Guide to Using Progress Bars in Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-complete-guide-to-using-progress-bars-in-python-aa7f4130cda8)

[How to Supercharge Excel With Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-supercharge-excel-with-python-726b0f8e22c2) - Excel의 VBA를 python으로

Commit message:

GITBOOK-92: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

language/python.md, after:

# Python

📘 [점프 투 파이썬 (온라인 버전)](https://wikidocs.net/book/1) - in WikiDocs

✏️ [Real Python](https://realpython.com) - 다양하고 유용한 Python tutorial이 있음

### 자료구조

[Common Python Data Structures (Guide)](https://realpython.com/python-data-structures/#collectionsordereddict-remember-the-insertion-order-of-keys) - in Real Python

[Use id() to Understand 6 Key Concepts in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/use-id-to-understand-6-key-concepts-in-python-73e0bbd461ec)\
&#x20; \-  _Python의 object 특징에 대한 이해_

* [Understanding ‘==’ vs. ‘is’ in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/understanding-vs-is-in-python-2f8f7ae1dd23)

[Python 3's f-Strings: An Improved String Formatting Syntax](https://realpython.com/python-f-strings/) - in Real Python

[Difference between Lists and Tuple](https://codeburst.io/difference-between-lists-and-tuple-9153fc329cd) - in Medium\
&#x20; \-  **Tuples** are stored in a single block of memory.\
&#x20; \-  **Lists** are allocated in two blocks: the fixed one with all the Python object information \
&#x20;    and a variable sized block for the data.

[OrderedDict vs dict in Python: The Right Tool for the Job](https://realpython.com/python-ordereddict/) - in Real Python

[Linked Lists in Python: An Introduction](https://realpython.com/linked-lists-python/#performance-comparison-lists-vs-linked-lists) - in Real Python

[Python Type Checking (Guide)](https://realpython.com/python-type-checking) - in Real Python\
&#x20; \-  _python type hint 기능에 대한 이해_

[Methods in Python: Fundamentals for Data Scientists](https://towardsdatascience.com/methods-in-python-fundamentals-for-data-scientists-6a9393b2c2e7) - in Medium\
&#x20; _-  class method, instance method, static method에 대한 설명_

[DataClass vs NamedTuple vs Object: A Battle of Performance in Python](https://medium.com/@jacktator/dataclass-vs-namedtuple-vs-object-for-performance-optimization-in-python-691e234253b9) - in Medium\
&#x20; _-  3.7버전 이후부터는 namedtuple 보다 dataclass 활용을 추천_

2023 [Should You Use Slots? How Slots Affect Your Class, and When and How to Use Them](https://towardsdatascience.com/should-you-use-slots-how-slots-affect-your-class-when-and-how-to-use-ab3f118abc71) - in Medium\
&#x20; \-  slots 사용의 장점 (속도, 메모리, 보안 )

### 언어에 대한 이해

[Defining Main Functions in Python](https://realpython.com/python-main-function/) - in Real Python\
&#x20; \-  _if  \_name  == " main \_" 에 대한 이해_

[Pickle in Python: Object Serialization](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/pickle-python-tutorial) - by DataCamp\
&#x20; \-  _Pickle은 python만 지원하고 성능이 좋지 않음 (개념 정도만 파악)_

[What is the Python Global Interpreter Lock (GIL)?](https://realpython.com/python-gil/) - in Real Python

[3 Essential Questions About Hashable in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/3-essential-questions-about-hashable-in-python-33e981042bcb)\
&#x20; \-  Python의 hash 설명과 Class를 활용한 custom 구현&#x20;

### 활용

[Are you writing print() statements to debug your Python code?](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/are-you-writing-print-statements-to-debug-your-python-code-690e6ba098e9)\
&#x20; \-  pdb 모듈로 디버깅하는 간단한 방법&#x20;

[Stop Using Print to Debug in Python. Use Icecream Instead](https://towardsdatascience.com/stop-using-print-to-debug-in-python-use-icecream-instead-79e17b963fcc)

&#x20; \- 간단한 디버깅은 print 대신 ic 명령어

[Package Python Projects the Proper Way with Poetry](https://hackersandslackers.com/python-poetry-package-manager/)\
&#x20; _-  가상환경 Tool (dependency 관리 )_

[Managing Multiple Python Versions With pyenv](https://realpython.com/intro-to-pyenv/) - in Real Python\
&#x20; \-  _python 버전관리에 대한 이해_

[Understanding Sync, Async, Concurrency and Parallelism](https://medium.com/swlh/understanding-sync-async-concurrency-and-parallelism-166686008fa4)\
&#x20; \-  _Concurrency와 Parallelism에 대한 간단한 설명 및 threading, multiprocessing + asyncio의 용도_

[AsyncIO, Threading, and Multiprocessing in Python](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/asyncio-threading-and-multiprocessing-in-python-4f5ff6ca75e8)\
&#x20; \-  _aysncio 코드 및 보완 설명_

[How to Execute Shell Commands with Python](https://janakiev.com/blog/python-shell-commands/)

### 알면 좋은 자료

[How to Stand Out in a Python Coding Interview](https://realpython.com/python-coding-interview-tips/) - in Real Python

[Efficiently Checking for an Empty List in Python ](https://medium.com/swlh/efficiently-checking-for-an-empty-list-in-python-76b76099fbd3)in Medium

[Benchmarking the Best Way to Reverse a String in Python](https://medium.com/better-programming/benchmarking-the-best-way-to-reverse-a-string-in-python-9c73d87b1b1a)

[Five Most Useful Pathlib Operations](https://medium.com/swlh/five-most-useful-pathlib-operations-77f9c96790b3)\
&#x20; \- os.path 대신 pathlib을 사용하자&#x20;

[Do Not Use “+” to Join Strings in Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/do-not-use-to-join-strings-in-python-f89908307273)\
&#x20; \-  리스트를 String으로 합칠 때는 ' '.join 활용

[A Complete Guide to Using Progress Bars in Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-complete-guide-to-using-progress-bars-in-python-aa7f4130cda8)
