relational-db/postgresql.md, before:

# PostgreSQL

한국 포스트그레스큐엘 [https://postgresql.kr/](https://postgresql.kr/)

## Setting

[도커 공식 포스트그레스큐엘 이미지를 쓸 때](https://postgresql.kr/blog/when\_useing\_docker\_official\_postgres\_image.html) - by POSTGRESQL.KR

[Connect From Your Local Machine to a PostgreSQL in Docker](https://medium.com/better-programming/connect-from-local-machine-to-postgresql-docker-container-f785f00461a7)

[3-Minute Guide to PostgreSQL Roles and Permissions](https://medium.com/people-ai-engineering/3-minute-guide-to-postgresql-roles-and-permissions-3f2d80f1a5b8)\
&#x20; \-  _GROUP을 활용한 USER 권한 설정_

[PGTune](https://pgtune.leopard.in.ua/#/) _- 시스템 옵션에 따라 간단하게 postgresql.conf 설정 추천_

[\[DB\] Postgresql Lock 파헤치기](https://medium.com/29cm/db-postgresql-lock-%ED%8C%8C%ED%97%A4%EC%B9%98%EA%B8%B0-57d37ebe057) _- by 29cm_

## Tutorial

[PostgreSQL Tutorial](http://www.postgresqltutorial.com)

[Materialized views with PostgreSQL for beginners](https://medium.com/jobteaser-dev-team/materialized-views-with-postgresql-for-beginners-9809483db35f)

[PostgreSQL Knowledge Base](https://kb.objectrocket.com/category/postgresql) - by ObjectRocket\
&#x20; \-  _사용법에 관한 다양한 글이 존재_

[Postgres Tutorials](https://www.enterprisedb.com/postgres-tutorials) _- by EDB_\
&#x20; _-  사용법에 관한 다양한 글이 존재_

## Tips

[12 Common Mistakes and Missed Optimization Opportunities in SQL](https://hakibenita.com/sql-dos-and-donts)

2023 [You Don't Need a Dedicated Cache Service - PostgreSQL as a Cache](https://martinheinz.dev/blog/105)



## Tuning

[Tuning PostgreSQL Database Parameters to Optimize Performance](https://www.percona.com/blog/2018/08/31/tuning-postgresql-database-parameters-to-optimize-performance/)

[Useful Queries For PostgreSQL Index Maintenance](https://www.percona.com/blog/2020/03/31/useful-queries-for-postgresql-index-maintenance/)\
&#x20; \-  _현재 설정된 INDEX를 확인하는 방법_

[Optimizing Storage and Managing Cleanup in PostgreSQL](https://medium.com/coding-blocks/optimizing-storage-and-managing-cleanup-in-postgresql-c2fe56d4cf5) - in Medium\
&#x20; \-  _Vacuum 사용에 대한 글_

2023 [How did we make Postgres perform reads 2x faster?](https://medium.com/shelf-io-engineering/how-did-we-make-postgres-perform-reads-2x-faster-with-partitioning-1a286f25cbbd) - in Medium\
&#x20; \- Partitioning

***

[postgrest - REST API for any Postgres database](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest)

[pgbouncer - Lightweight connection pooler for PostgreSQL](https://github.com/pgbouncer/pgbouncer)

* 2020 [너와 나의 연결고리! DB Connection Pooler — PgBouncer](https://medium.com/deliverytechkorea/%EB%84%88%EC%9D%98-%EB%82%98%EC%9D%98-%EC%97%B0%EA%B2%B0%EA%B3%A0%EB%A6%AC-db-connection-pooler-pgbouncer-e43ec536a088) - by Delivery Heroes\
  &#x20; \-  _PostgreSQL의 connection 관리를 효율적으로 하여 Query Latency를 최소화_

[Neon - Serverless Postgres](https://neon.tech/)

[Citus - Distributed Postgres](https://www.citusdata.com/)

* [대량의 광고 데이터 필터 기능 개발기: ES한테 뺨맞고 Citus한테 안긴 썰](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tWWxQDbp8z4) - in if(kakao)2022[\
  ](https://www.citusdata.com/)

Commit message:

GITBOOK-108: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

relational-db/postgresql.md, after:

# PostgreSQL

한국 포스트그레스큐엘 [https://postgresql.kr/](https://postgresql.kr/)

## Setting

[도커 공식 포스트그레스큐엘 이미지를 쓸 때](https://postgresql.kr/blog/when_useing_docker_official_postgres_image.html) - by POSTGRESQL.KR

[Connect From Your Local Machine to a PostgreSQL in Docker](https://medium.com/better-programming/connect-from-local-machine-to-postgresql-docker-container-f785f00461a7)

[3-Minute Guide to PostgreSQL Roles and Permissions](https://medium.com/people-ai-engineering/3-minute-guide-to-postgresql-roles-and-permissions-3f2d80f1a5b8)\
&#x20; \-  _GROUP을 활용한 USER 권한 설정_

[PGTune](https://pgtune.leopard.in.ua/#/) _- 시스템 옵션에 따라 간단하게 postgresql.conf 설정 추천_

[\[DB\] Postgresql Lock 파헤치기](https://medium.com/29cm/db-postgresql-lock-%ED%8C%8C%ED%97%A4%EC%B9%98%EA%B8%B0-57d37ebe057) _- by 29cm_

## Tutorial

[PostgreSQL Tutorial](http://www.postgresqltutorial.com)

[Materialized views with PostgreSQL for beginners](https://medium.com/jobteaser-dev-team/materialized-views-with-postgresql-for-beginners-9809483db35f)

[PostgreSQL Knowledge Base](https://kb.objectrocket.com/category/postgresql) - by ObjectRocket\
&#x20; \-  _사용법에 관한 다양한 글이 존재_

[Postgres Tutorials](https://www.enterprisedb.com/postgres-tutorials) _- by EDB_\
&#x20; _-  사용법에 관한 다양한 글이 존재_

## Tips

[12 Common Mistakes and Missed Optimization Opportunities in SQL](https://hakibenita.com/sql-dos-and-donts)

2024 [Boosting Postgres INSERT Performance by 2x With UNNEST](https://www.timescale.com/blog/boosting-postgres-insert-performance) - by Timescale\
&#x20; ARRAY 형태 데이터 삽입 시 성능 향상 방법

2023 [You Don't Need a Dedicated Cache Service - PostgreSQL as a Cache](https://martinheinz.dev/blog/105)



## Tuning

2025 [9 Database Optimization Tricks SQL Experts Are Hiding From You](https://medium.com/hack-the-stack/9-database-optimization-tricks-sql-experts-are-hiding-from-you-40834c93be86) - in Medium\
&#x20; 테이블 INDEX 최적화 세팅 관련

[Tuning PostgreSQL Database Parameters to Optimize Performance](https://www.percona.com/blog/2018/08/31/tuning-postgresql-database-parameters-to-optimize-performance/)

[Useful Queries For PostgreSQL Index Maintenance](https://www.percona.com/blog/2020/03/31/useful-queries-for-postgresql-index-maintenance/)\
&#x20; \-  _현재 설정된 INDEX를 확인하는 방법_

[Optimizing Storage and Managing Cleanup in PostgreSQL](https://medium.com/coding-blocks/optimizing-storage-and-managing-cleanup-in-postgresql-c2fe56d4cf5) - in Medium\
&#x20; \-  _Vacuum 사용에 대한 글_

2023 [How did we make Postgres perform reads 2x faster?](https://medium.com/shelf-io-engineering/how-did-we-make-postgres-perform-reads-2x-faster-with-partitioning-1a286f25cbbd) - in Medium\
&#x20; \- Partitioning

***

[RTABench - a Benchmark For Real Time Analytics](https://rtabench.com/) (TimescaleDB)

[postgrest - REST API for any Postgres database](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest)

[pgbouncer - Lightweight connection pooler for PostgreSQL](https://github.com/pgbouncer/pgbouncer)

* 2020 [너와 나의 연결고리! DB Connection Pooler — PgBouncer](https://medium.com/deliverytechkorea/%EB%84%88%EC%9D%98-%EB%82%98%EC%9D%98-%EC%97%B0%EA%B2%B0%EA%B3%A0%EB%A6%AC-db-connection-pooler-pgbouncer-e43ec536a088) - by Delivery Heroes\
  &#x20; \-  _PostgreSQL의 connection 관리를 효율적으로 하여 Query Latency를 최소화_

[Neon - Serverless Postgres](https://neon.tech/)

[Citus - Distributed Postgres](https://www.citusdata.com/)

* [대량의 광고 데이터 필터 기능 개발기: ES한테 뺨맞고 Citus한테 안긴 썰](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tWWxQDbp8z4) - in if(kakao)2022[\
  ](https://www.citusdata.com/)
